Hi everyone, my name is John Savile and
welcome to my
AZ900 the Azure fundamentals get
certified with John Savile course. This
course is designed to give you the
information to pass the
A900 Microsoft Azure fundamentals exam
which will give you that Azure
fundamentals Microsoft certification.
This certification really shows that you
have a basic understanding of cloud
services and how they are provided by
Microsoft Azure. I've been working with
Microsoft technology about 30 years now.
I started with an NTFAQ site to help
answer questions about Windows. I wrote
a lot of magazine articles, nine books,
and now I have my YouTube channel which
has a lot of information primarily about
Azure, but also other Microsoft
technologies as well. I'm really known
for my whiteboard and demonstration
presentations, which is exactly what
we're going to do within this course.
So, we'll walk through all of the key
areas of the exam. will understand it
through whiteboarding the concepts
through demonstrating the technologies
and hopefully at the end of it you'll go
and take the exam and
pass. So let's talk a little bit about
the course. This is a foundational exam
which means this is a really good
certification to start out with. So
you're just beginning with the cloud.
You want to demonstrate some core
knowledge. You need to understand the
big picture. what the key capabilities
are, what key considerations are without
having to know any of the details or
really even knowing how to specifically
use it. It is a really good first step
towards other certifications that then
could be part of your continuing
learning
journey. We could actually start off
looking at the training certification
poster. So
firstly, so this is my YouTube channel.
I create a lot of content every week. If
you're looking for deeper information on
any particular thing, there's probably a
video on it. But if we look at the
training certification poster, if we
look in this far-left infrastructure
column, this is where the Azure
fundamentals live. This is the A900.
It's about mastering the basics. And
once you complete this, you may want to
go and look at other fundamental
certifications, for example, around
artificial intelligence, around data,
other concepts. or maybe you want to go
deeper into rolebased exams, things like
the Azure administrator certification,
the solutions architect and other
specialtities. So that's the starting
point for really your Azure
learning. You take this exam at a
testing center or you can take it at
home. If you're going to take it at
home, make sure you have a nice clear
space to take the exam from. You'll need
to take pictures of the entire area from
all the different angles to show you're
not cheating. And you'll need a
government issued ID in addition to
obviously yourself being present. If
you're going to take it at an exam
center, give yourself plenty of time to
get there, know where it is. You don't
want to add stress to your day and you
don't want to be shocked by the exam
experience. If you've never done a
Microsoft exam before, there's actually
a sandbox available so you can try out
well what's the exam going to be like.
If we jump back over here for a second,
and all these links are in the video
description, but in the main document
for the Azure fundamentals, if you
scroll down to prepare for the exam and
then practice for the exam, one of the
things you have here is experience demo.
So, this will launch a sandbox that will
give you the exact same computer-based
interface you'll see in the exam. So,
you should try that out and just get
familiar with all the different aspects
so you're not surprised during the exam
at
all. Now, the basic structure of this
course mirrors that of the exam itself.
We're going to look at the skills
measured, the different study areas that
help us get those skills, and we're
going to pretty closely align with
exactly the same structure as the exam.
Now, some of the things may be slightly
different. I do update different lessons
of this course over time. So, some of
them are older, more newer than others
because there have been changes or there
haven't been changes. But if we go and
look at the breakdown of what you're
going to
cover, we can see from the document it
talks about well currently there are
three key areas. Describe cloud
concepts, describe Azure architecture
and services and describe Azure
management governance. Then for each of
those major areas, it breaks it down
into particular types of skill that
you're going to need to know. And so I'm
going to break the course down into
really mapping those same types of
things. Make sure after you've done the
learning, take the practice assessment.
It's free so you can go through and
really understand that it gives you
details about what the exam is. So it's
45 minutes. It is not open book because
this is a fundamentals exam. The main
page gives you information on how to
schedule. There is a study guide.
There's also as part of all of these
different pieces of information, the
skills you're going to cover a change
log available to you. So, it's just a
really great set of information
available. And the other thing you want
to do in addition to this is there is a
Microsoft Azure fundamentals course.
This is free and it will again walk you
through all of the different aspects
that you need to understand. There's
lots of great resources available to
you. You can also go and get a free
subscription which gives you some nice
initial credit but also a certain amount
of free services every month for the
first year and then other services that
are always free. So you don't even
really have to pay any money to start
and get going with this. So that's the
introduction to the course. Now let's
get on with the learning.